Conan 1.20 write-up (#99)
conan-io/conan-io.github.io: _posts/2019-11-13-New-conan-release-1-20.markdown

---
layout: post
comments: false
title: "Conan 1.20: Reuse CMake macros, system libraries support, Compatible packages and new recipe methods!"
---

New 1.20 release with useful features and improvements. Here you have the main highlights of this one!

## Reuse CMake macros from your dependencies

Following the line of previous releases, we continue to pursue a transparent integration with build systems and in this case, we have
improved the `cpp_info` model to include build system files or build modules in the case of CMake.

This new feature allows reusing the CMake macros on the consumer side in a transparent way. This comes handy when libraries provide some
kind of helper as a function or macro to consumers to create or link targets or to use a built-in tool.

We did some tests using the [pybind11 library](https://github.com/pybind/pybind11). This library provides a CMake macro 

> that helps consumer to create and link their targets: [pybin11_add_module()](https://pybind11.readthedocs.io/en/stable/compiling.html#pybind11-add-module).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that helps a consumer to create and link its targets: [pybin11_add_module()](https://pybind11.readthedocs.io/en/stable/compiling.html#pybind11-add-module).
```

*conan-pybind11/conanfile.py*
```
...
    def package_info(self):
        base_path = os.path.join("share", "cmake", "pybind11")
        self.cpp_info.builddirs = [base_path]
        self.cpp_info.build_modules = [
            os.path.join(base_path, "pybind11Tools.cmake"),
            os.path.join(base_path, "FindPythonLibsNew.cmake")
        ]
...
```

Those build modules will be included in the find and config files generated by the `cmake_find_package` and `cmake_find_package_multi`
generators so they can be used transparently like this:

```
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 2.8.12)
project(example)

find_package(pybind11 REQUIRED)
pybind11_add_module(example example.cpp)
```

The complete diff of the changes required in the `pybind11` recipe as well as the consumer's *CMakeLists.txt* can be found [here](https://github.com/conan-community/conan-pybind11/compare/release/2.3.0...danimtb:release/2.3.0_build_modules?expand=1).

Remember to check [the documentation](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/conanfile/attributes.html#cpp-info) for full details about
this feature.

## Support for system libraries

> Another useful improvement coming to the `cpp_info` model is the system libraries. It is very common that libraries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another useful improvement coming to the `cpp_info` model is the system libraries. Commonly, libraries
```

require consumers to link to system libraries like `pthread`, `m` or `Ws2_32`.

This was normally done appending those system libs to the `cpp_info.libs` and therefore, mixing package libraries with the 
system ones.

Some generators were smart enough to detect package libraries and system libraries, but they did not apply any special treatment to the
latest.

With the usage of `cpp_info.system_libs` generators have now the ability to improve the target generation, linking them as
`INTERFACE_LINK_LIBRARIES` in all the CMake generators.

You can read more about system libraries in the
[documentation](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/conanfile/attributes.html#cpp-info).

> ## Compatible packages

Reviewer 2: Mention two important things:

1. This approach is different than the previous one that altered the package_id introducing a fixed value like compiler == "GCC_BETWEEN_4.7_4.9" (Look the example in the docs). Now, if you apply a profile for 4.7 you will generate a package for 4.7, if you apply a profile of 4.8 you will get a package id for 4.8, BUT if you don't generate a package for 4.9 and as a consumer, you require this package, you can get a binary for 4.8.
2. The interface of declaring compatible packages with the `CompatiblePackage` class is experimental and might change in the next releases. <= I think it should

Author: Done!

[the documentation](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/creating_packages/define_abi_compatibility.html#compatible-packages) and the examples to learn more about it.

## Dynamically set the name or the version of your packages

Now you can [dynamically define the name and the version](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/howtos/capture_version.html) of your recipes with
`set_name()` and `set_version()`. For example, if you want to extract the version from the *CMakeLists.txt*:

```
class HelloConan(ConanFile):
        name = "Hello"

        def set_version(self):
            content = load("CMakeLists.txt")
            version = re.search(b"set\(MY_LIBRARY_VERSION (.*)\)", content).group(1)
            self.version = version.strip()
```

The set of `self.name` and `self.version` is only allowed inside those methods and the information will be stored in the recipe metadata, meaning that these methods will be only used when the recipe is exported to the cache.

## SCM improvements

We had some optimizations pending for the [SCM feature](https://github.com/conan-io/conan/issues/5195) that are now solved in this release.

> Now, when a package is created with not committed changes, the `auto` fields in the recipe are not replaced automatically. This marks the

Author: Esto no lo entiendo. Quieres decir con cambios no realizados? Yo pondría "with no changes made"

> packages as *dirty* and prevents the upload of the recipe to a remote without uncommitted changes but allows developers to continue testing

Author: to a remote y qué más, remote database, remote library? no entiendo.....

the package creation with those changes.

However, you can still force Conan to replace the `auto` fields in export, create and export-pkg commands with the `--ignore-dirty` flag or
force the upload of *dirty* packages with `conan upload --force`.

See the [complete documentation](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/creating_packages/package_repo.html#capturing-the-remote-and-commit-scm)
of this feature.

## Clang 10 and GCC 7.4 support

Conan 1.20 adds support for Clang 10 and includes the specific 7.4 version for GCC in the default *settings.yml* file.

Remember that the minor version values in the `gcc` compiler are claimed to be compatible and that Conan will use by default just GCC 7 as
the version value in the profile unless it is explicitly indicated in the profile.

## Generating Artifactory build-info from lockfiles

> With out focus on improving the continuous integration flows for Conan packages, we have released a new approach to generate build

Author: without quizás?

Author: with our

information for packages using the [Build Info JSON format](https://github.com/jfrog/build-info) for Artifactory. Instead of using the Conan trace file to gather the information, this is now done using a [lockfile](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/versioning/lockfiles.html).

This [new experimental feature](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/howtos/generic_ci_artifactory.html#generating-build-info-from-lockfiles-information)

> is available through the `conan_build_info` command and we believe it will help to look into and develop how to achieve an efficient, robust

Author: yo pondría "we trust it will help" suena con más confianza
